[Term Entry] Lua String: .find() (#3832)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/strings/terms/find/find.md

---
Title: '.find()'

> Description: 'The **`.find()`** function is used to search for a substring within a string and returns the start and end indices of the first occurrence of the substring.'

Author: this makes sense, I think I was too literal with the point from the style guide:

Description: should be repeated in the introductory paragraph of the entry, i.e., The information in Description: should appear in the introduction to the entry.

> Description: 'The **`.find()`** function is used to search for a substring within a string and returns the start and end indices of the first occurrence of the substring.'

Reviewer: Yep, you can keep the introductory para more informative and discuss other aspects of the method/function. But in desc keep it short and precise.

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Index'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Search'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.find()`** function is used to search for a substring within a string and returns the start and end indices of the first occurrence of the substring.
> 
> If the substring is not found, the function returns `nil`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.find()`** function is used to search for a substring within a string and returns the start and end indices of the first occurrence of the substring. If the substring is not found, the function returns `nil`.
```

Author: This makes sense, but because I was basing it off [this](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/content/python/concepts/strings/terms/find/find.md), it might be worth editing as well.

## Syntax

> These are 2 different syntaxes for the .find() function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are 2 different syntaxes for the `.find()` function:
```

> ### 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo
string.find(fullString, searchString, init, pattern)
```

This requires assigning the function to a variable, to return the function.

> or
> 
> ### 2
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo
startindex, endindex = string.find(fullstring, searchstring, init, pattern)
```

This uses multiple assignment to save the results to an individual variables.

- `fullString`: Is the string we are searching through.
- `searchString`: Is the sub-string to search for.
- `init` (optional): Is the initial index where the search starts. *Default index is 1*.
- `pattern` (optional): Is a Boolean flag indicating whether to search using **pattern matching**[^1]. When set to false, pattern matching can be used, where as when set to true, pattern matching is ignored, and exact matches are searched for. *Default is false*.

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> Use `.find()` without multiple assignments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using `.find()` without multiple assignments
```
Let's change this to sub heading

Author: I can see why this is a change, I have basically already given all of the examples a sub-heading, so we might as well use them.

```lua
sentence = 'hello world'
search1 = string.find(sentence, "hello")
search2 = string.find(sentence, "world")
search3 = string.find(sentence, "universe")

print(search1)
print(search2)
print(search3)
```

The above example assigns the function to a unique variable, in order for the results to be returned/printed to the console.

> The results of the above functions are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```shell
1
7
nil
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Explaining how each output came:
```

Author: While I can see why this could be a way of introducing the explanations, I think that having the explanations directly after the code example reduces the need for an extra line, when context clues can indicate that the following explanation is referring to the previous code.

I have found some instances of no intro within the live docs [here](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/strings/intern), [here](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/strings/find) and [here](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/strings/find). 

Is it possible to not need the line?

Reviewer: Yes it will work

Author: thank you

- `hello` is found at starting index 1 in the `sentence` string.
- `world` is found at starting index 7 in the `sentence` string.
- `universe` is not found in `sentence` string, therefore the output is nil.

> ## Example 2
> 
> Use `.find()` with multiple assignments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using `.find()` with multiple assignments
```

```lua
sentence = "hello world"
a, b = string.find(sentence, "hello")
print(a)
print(b)

print(a, b)

y, z = string.find(sentence, "world")
print(y)
print(z)

print(y, z)
```

> The above example uses multiple assignment, to save the results to individual variables, in order for the results to be returned/printed to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above uses multiple assignments to save the results to individual variables, enabling the results to be returned or printed to the console.
```

> The results of the above functions are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```shell
1
5
1  5
7
11
7  11
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Explanation for the above output:
```

- `hello` starts at index 1, and ends at index 5 in the `sentence` string. Due to multiple assignments, `a` saves the value `1`, and `b` saves the second value `5`.
- `world` starts at index 7, and ends at index 11 in the `sentence` string. Due to multiple assignments, `y` saves the first value `7`, and `z` saves the second value `11`.

> ## Example 3
> 
> Use `.find()` with `init` (Initial position) parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using `.find()` with `init` (Initial position) parameter
```

```lua

> sentence1 = 'hello world'
> search = string.find(sentence1, "l", 5)
> print(search)  -- Output: 10
> 
> sentence2 = 'world world'
> a, b = string.find(sentence2, "orl", 5)
> print(a)  -- Output: 8
> print(b)  -- Output: 10
> 
> print(a, b)  -- Output: 8  10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sentence1 = 'hello world'
search = string.find(sentence1, "l", 5)
print(search)  

sentence2 = 'world world'
a, b = string.find(sentence2, "orl", 5)
print(a)  
print(b)

print(a, b)  
```
no need to add comments here

Author: yep, this was a mistake. I aimed to remove all comments, but forgot to remove these before the PR.

```

The above example uses the initial position parameter to indicate where the search shout start.

> The results of the above functions are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```shell
10
8
10
8  10
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Explanation for the above output:
```

- `l` has multiple instances within the `sentence` string. Due to the init parameter, the search starts at index 5, therefore the first instance of `l` from index 5 will be at starting index `10`.
- `orl` has multiple instances within the `sentence` string. Due to the init parameter, the search starts at index 5, therefore the first instance of `orl` from index 5 will be at starting index `8`, and ends at index `10`.

## Example 4

Use `.find()` with `pattern` (pattern matching) parameter:

```lua

> -- With pattern matching
> sentence = "hello world"
> a, b = string.find(sentence, "l+", 1, false)
> print(a)
> print(b)
> 
> -- Without pattern matching
> y, x = string.find("hello world", "l+", 1, true)
> print(y)
> print(z)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sentence = "hello world"
a, b = string.find(sentence, "l+", 1, false)
print(a)
print(b)

y, x = string.find("hello world", "l+", 1, true)
print(y)
print(z)
```

Author: Won't having the comments distinguish between the code with pattern matching and the code without pattern matching make quickly telling the difference between the two easier? without it, you would either have to explicitly indicate the difference in the explanation on lines 173 and 174, or hope the user remembers the difference, or require them to scroll up.

```

The above example uses the pattern matching parameter to determine if pattern matching characters can be used as search terms.

> The results of the above functions are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output will be:
```

```shell
3
4
nil
nil
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Explanation for the above output:
```

> - In the first example, `l+` uses '+' to match one or more repetitions of the previous character 'l'. Due to the `false` boolean value, pattern matching is being used, which results the outputs of `a` and `b` resulting to 3 and 4 respectively.
> - In the second example, `l+` is being treated as a literal string, which doesn't exist in the string `hello world`. Due to the `true` boolean value, pattern matching is disabled, which results the outputs of `nil` in both `y` and `z`, as the string `l+` does not exist in the string `hello world`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the first example, `l+` uses `+` to match one or more repetitions of the previous character `l`. Due to the `false` boolean value, pattern matching is being used, which results in the outputs of `a` and `b` resulting in 3 and 4 respectively.
- In the second example, `l+` is being treated as a literal string, which doesn't exist in the string `hello world`. Due to the `true` boolean value, pattern matching is disabled, which results in the outputs of `nil` in both `y` and `z`, as the string `l+` does not exist in the string `hello world`.
```

> [^1]: The special pattern matching characters allow for lua to use specified characters in `searchString` to make a pattern matching search. This allows for complex search patterns, which can enhance the flexibility of your searches. Pattern matching is similar to the concept [Regular Expressions](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/regular-expressions), although Lua's pattern matching is not the same as regular expression, as it is more limited, and uses a different syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** [^1]: The special pattern matching characters allow for lua to use specified characters in `searchString` to make a pattern matching search. This allows for complex search patterns, which can enhance the flexibility of your searches. Pattern matching is similar to the concept [Regular Expressions](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/regular-expressions), although Lua's pattern matching is not the same as regular expression, as it is more limited, and uses a different syntax.
```

Author: if we are converting this into a note, doesn't it make more sense to have it between the explanations between the syntax explanation, and the first example?
